The Story of a Child 55

to go out into the garden to study her
hymn, should have dared to meet “the
Temple child,’ and spend the long, still,
sunshiny hours in idle talk, was something
that Mrs. Dale would not have forbidden,
because it would never have seemed
possible.

Before this new friendship came into
Ellen's life, her Sunday afternoons, in sum-
mer, had had a distinct and happy charac-
ter of their own. There were always some
verses from the Bible to be studied, and
a hymn. And so, book in hand, mur-
muring over and over words which had
little meaning in her ears, she wandered
about the garden, “getting by heart,” as
she expressed it, some of the noblest ex-
pressions of the spiritual life. Sometimes
she stopped to talk to the flowers; some-
times to lay her cheek against the ground,
and look through the mist of grass stems,
and weave her little fancies about the
world of bee, and butterfly, and blossom ;
not unfrequently she climbed into the low

