
## 1. A Partin Search of a Play

> Nous ne vivons jamais, mais nous espérons de vivre; et, nous disposant
> toujours 4 étre heureux, il est inévitable que nous le soyons
> jamais.
> 
> — Pascal


WE COMMUNICATORS - vendors of words, to use St Augustine’s ex-
pression - tend to accumulate a lot of waste matter as we go along. I
mean press-cuttings, maybe pasted up in books, or just stuffed into
envelopes; old letters, whether of personal significance, recording some
moment of ostensible drama in one’s life, or from unknown corres-
pondents, flattering or abusive (television appearances bring in sackfuls
of these), in both cases ministering to one’s self-esteem. Books once
considered to be of special interest, or just review copies for some reason
unsold to the knackers; for that matter, one’s own books, still standing
in tattered dust-jackets on one’s shelves. Photographs, souvenirs,
presentations, certificates; even — a mania of my own — all the different
passes, Jaissez-passers, visas and other such documents needed to make
one’s way about this increasingly obstructed world. The rags and
tatters of a professionally exhibitionist ego. After half a century in the
business, I have a mountain of such junk.

The fact that I have allowed these, what the French police call

piéces justificatives, to accumulate at all, indicates, I suppose, that I
attach a certain value to them, and have an intention some day to sort
them out and arrange them chronologically with a view to their preser-
vation, maybe at some American university, grateful for any pabulum
to fill its air-conditioned, dust-and-damp-proof vaults. I doubt, though,
whether I shall ever bring myself to undertake the task. The odds are I
shall die with it still undone, and I see no reason why anyone else should
bother with it. Unless my beloved Kitty, if she outlives me (as I pray
she may, rather than leaving me, desolate, behind), were for love of me
to cherish them, staple or sew them together, and stow them away in
