The Pursuit of Righteousness 171

every leader must hinge ~ inflicting, as it does, quite apart from any purely
physical pain or discomfiture, serious psychological damage on punisher and
punished alike . . . Finally, a note of hope, on which all good leaders
must go out- While not for one moment suggesting that punishment, as
such, can be wholly dispensed with, it is greatly to be hoped that the use of
the cane will be, if not abolished altogether, then reserved for only the most
drastic occasions . . . In editorialese time is always high and punishment
as such.

It is painful to me now to reflect the ease with which I got into the
way of using this non-language; these drooling non-sentences conveying
non-thoughts, propounding non-fears and offering non-hopes. Words
are as beautiful as love, and as easily betrayed. I am more penitent for my
false words — for the most part, mercifully lost for ever in the Media’s
great slag-heaps — than for false deeds. Discussing once with Kingsmill
this obliteration of language, we decided that there was no need for
politicians to finish their sentences, the end being implicit in the
beginning. Thus, taking the case of the then looming opening of the
United Nations, the following all-purpose cues would serve for any
orator:

On this historic occasion when .. .

There can be no one here present who...

We have just passed through an ordeal that...

No thinking man will underestimate the...

While there are many circumstances which...

‘There are solid grounds for hoping that...

It is surely incumbent upon all of us to...

While recognising the reality of .. .

No mere conflict of interest should...

The immeasurable strides that Science has...

Such is the choice that at present confronts...

It is idle to think that politicians can...

It rests with the common people to...

With head erect and clear purpose we...

For the time being, however, I was well satisfied with my first offering to The Guardian as J laid it on Ted Scott’s desk, and returned to the
library to await the outcome. Paddy Monkhouse looked in to see how I
‘was getting on with corporal — or was it capital? — punishment. His own
piece (on, if I remember correctly, footpaths in the Peak District which
were threatened with closure) - being likewise finished, we repaired to
the Stock Bar, a conveniently situated underground bar which the
