100 The Green Stick

arranging the delicacies he has made. A grain merchant dozing, with
open sacks of rice, a shovel and scales ready to hand. A jeweller sitting,
inscrutable, among his bracelets and trinkets and necklaces; as it might
be some Maharajah’s vizier or treasurer. A cloth-merchant with silks
and brocades under his eye, quietly observant of any who come to
look at them. And, as one passes, the whispered persuasion to come and

buy, however seemingly hopeless the proposition. As though I should

want a tortoise-shell comb to put in black silken hair! Or a little silver
box for holding betel and lime!

From the moment of landing in Colombo, I was made conscious of
my status as a Sahib. It was like suddenly inheriting a peerage and being

addressed as My Lord. Just by virtue of being English and white, if
you went to buy a ticket at a railway station, people made way for you.
Similarly, in a shop. It was very insidious. At first I found it embarrass-
ing and distasteful; then, though I continued to ridicule it, I came to
count upon receiving special treatment. Finally, when for some reason
it was not accorded, there was an impulse to become sulky and irritated.
From that it is but a small step to shouting and insisting, as, in the days
of the Raj, I saw happen often enough. Our position in India as a ruling
race corrupted all concerned; soldiers — and other ranks just as much as
officers, if not more so- missionaries, government officials, planters,

business men, wives and children; everyone. It also corrupted the
Indians, whether they kissed the rod and accepted a position of sub-
servience, or whether they rebelled against it. Though alien rule can

sometimes be more efficient and honest than self-government, it is
bound ultimately to become deleterious to rulers and ruled alike. We
accept bad government — we have to - but find it more bearable from

our own kith and kin than from foreigners. The absurdity is to suppose
that self-government, as such, is otherwise beneficent; that replacing a
buffoonish colonial governor with a feathered hat by an equally buffoon-
ish Jomo Kenyatta with a fly-switch, or white bully-boys by black ones,
represents any moral or - as the World Council of Churches, that pons
asinorum of all Christian endeavour, appears to suppose — spiritual
advance. India without the Raj is, in this respect, in no way a better,
or worse, place. The only essential difference is that the Sahibs are now

brown instead of white.

There remained nonetheless the moral dilemmas with which life in
India constantly confronted a reluctant Sahib in my time there. Take,
for instance, the rickshaw. This horrible conveyance, invented, I believe,

by a missionary in Japan, was often the only sort available; as I found
