210 The Green Stick

her and of bourgeois life; and I wanted to fix the scene in my mind so
that I should never forget it. Webb asleep in his arm-chair, grunting
occasionally; the glowing fire, the sofa, the little tables and knick-knacks
and photographs in silver frames. The warmth, the snugness; the wonderful insulation from what is harsh and bitter and inexorable. Those two
Scottish maids sitting by their fire and in their own arm-chairs, but
ready at any moment to spring into action, and make a hot drink or
prepare a hot water-bottle. Mrs Webb hovering over it all, the genie
escaped from the bottle; pronouncing a doom — that in the USSR people
disappeared, as would we all, along with that room, that whole way of
life. Set, scenery, actors and props, all due for disappearance.

On the Sunday morning the Webbs came to the front door to see us
off. It was an unusual attention; except in the case of particularly
important visitors, adieus took place in the sitting-room. This was a
special occasion; we were going to the USSR where they were ikons.
Standing side by side, she looked ridiculously tall and thin, and he
squat, almost a dwarf. As the ancient limousine lurched forward to take
us to the station, they waved in unison. Standing behind them, also
discreetly waving, we could see the two Scottish maids. So, from this
warm, snug bourgeois nest we took off on our migratory flight, saying to
ourselves with the monkish author of The Cloud of Unknowing: ‘Look
now forwards, and let the backwards be.’

Sailing down the Thames again, this time with Kitty beside me, in the
Soviet ship Kooperatsia, there was the same sweet music I remembered
from when I set sail for India~a prow piercing the water; a ship’s
stealthily onward push as it followed its determined course. The sweet
music of departure. This time I was on my way, not to tired imperial
glory, but to the veritable future of mankind. Our ship’s Red Flag
flying proudly at the very heart of London; within sight of Westminster
and Honourable Members on their terrace; within sound of their division
bell and Big Ben; the Unholy City, gathered by the Thames, harbouring,
without knowing it, this crimson portent of the wrath to come.

Kitty and I waited on deck as long as there was anything to see, and
then explored the ship. Somehow, we expected it to be different from
other ships, but apart from having a picture of Lenin and Stalin in the
dining saloon where a P & O boat would have had one of King George V
and Queen Mary, it seemed in no way peculiar. I even noticed that the
ship’s engines had been made in Glasgow. It was, in fact, a pre-Revolution ship that had been taken over by the Soviet authorities and re