
## 5. Who Whom?

> I no longer wished for a better world, because I was thinking of the
> whole of creation, and in the light of this clearer discernment I had
> 
> come to see that, though the higher things are better than the lower,
> the sum of all creation is better than the higher things alone.
> 
> St Augustine

KITTY AND I were confident that going to Russia would prove to be a
definitive step, a final adventure. Our plan was, as soon as we were settled,
to fetch our son over and live there for evermore. We wanted him, we
told everyone with great emphasis, to grow up in a sane world with a
future instead of in our crazy run-down one with only a past. What we
were leaving behind, we felt, was derelict, moribund. A preposterous
Ramsay MacDonald grimacing and posturing, contemptuously retained
in office by his political adversaries for a little while longer so as to hold
up to ridicule everything the political movement which made him Prime
Minister in the first place, had ever stood for or aspired after. The de-
pression hanging like a dark cloud over the industrial North, Lancashire
especially; The Guardian under Crozier abysmally second-rate and flat;
another war looming, which would surely come, and complete the moral
and material destruction of the previous one. Where we were going, we
assured ourselves and one another, there was hope and exhilaration.
Tt was the wave of the future — a phrase even then current.

Feeling so, we sold off pretty well everything we had, making, as it
were, a bonfire of all our bourgeois trappings; my dinner-jacket, for
instance, and Kitty’s only long dress, as well as some little trinkets and
oddments, and most of our books, which we considered to be bourgeois
literature of no relevance in a Workers’ State. We even wound up our
bank account, taking what money we had - some two hundred pounds,
as I recall—in traveller’s cheques. What possible use would a bank
account be in a country where bankers, along with industrialists, land-
