
## 3 Twilight of Empire

> The world’s too little for thy tent,
> A grave too big for me.
> 
> — George Herbert

SAILING DOWN THE THAMES on a P & O liner - the SS Morea-on
my way to the open sea and India, I felt well content. I have always had
a great weakness for making off. Shutting a door behind me never to
open it again; disengaging myself from a sleeping figure, and tiptoeing
away, downstairs and out into the street and the grey anonymous dawn
of another day. Now I was making off, leaving everyone and everything
behind me; unpaid bills and overdrafts, actual and emotional. I had
seen little of Dora of late. We had drifted apart, largely through my
fault. The self I had become as a result of my idle, conceited years at
Cambridge was a very unalluring one. I recall with shame the falsity
and pretentiousness of letters I wrote to Dora after we became estranged.
They were even worse than Keats’s to Fanny Brawne; a relationship
which greatly interested me. I was always trying to be some literary
figure or other. In the case of Keats, there were two major deficiencies
in my impersonation; I wasn’t a poet and I didn’t die.

My father came to see me off. He never had an engagement important
enough to stop him from being with me on any special occasion. We
walked up and down the deck together, neither of us being easy sitters,
and talked about politics. Ramsay MacDonald’s first Labour Govern-
ment had taken office without a majority in the House of Commons, and
so was dependent on Liberal support. Suddenly, MacDonald, a much
hated man, especially in the 1914-18 war years, had become a popular
folk hero, with pictures of him in the papers; at Chequers wearing his
tweed knickerbocker suit, his grey curls awry in the wind, and a faraway
look in his eyes. My father’s esteem for him, never very marked, was
diminishing rapidly. He feared, all too justifiably as it turned out, that
