
## 4. The Pursuit of Righteousness

> The reigning Error of his Life was, that he mistook the Love for the
> Practice of Virtue, and was indeed not so much a Good Man as the
> Friend of Goodness.
> 
> ~ Johnson’s Life of Savage

BACK IN ENGLAND, I went to stay in Birmingham with Alec Vidler,
who was by this time a curate there in a parish in Small Heath. He and
the other clergy, all celibates, lived in a clergy house, where I also
stayed. Unmarried clerics, whatever their denomination, living to-
gether, create their own characteristic domestic interior. Austere, and,
at the same time, careless; with tobacco smoke hanging about the cur-
tains and upholstery, as well as in the lavatory, which gives an impression
of being in constant use; like the crockery in a busy station buffet. No
carpets, so footsteps echo up the wooden stairs and along the wooden
corridors; the rustle of cassocks, and the fumes of plain cooking seeping
through the service hatch; tea set ready for all and sundry in a large
metal pot standing amidst an array of cups and saucers. A lot of joking,
while standing in front of the fire, hands under black leather belt and
black skirts billowing; in the early morning, celebrants coming and
going, their faces severe and withdrawn, sometimes holding their gear;
in the afternoons, a heaviness, and in the evenings an ebullience, at
night vaguely heard groans and mutterings and twistings and turnings
of uneasy sleepers.

The adjoining church was, of course, very high, with the little red
light of the reserved Sacrament always aglow, the pungency of incense
always in the air, Holy Water in good supply, and confessionals available
like telephone kiosks as and when required. All this led to an acri-
monious controversy with the then Bishop of Birmingham, Dr Barnes,
who regarded the Eucharist as a distasteful form of magic. A sometime
Daily News columnist, he was one of Ramsay MacDonald’s clerical
