
## 2 A Socialist Upbringing

> The world will become a heavenly commune to which men will
> bring the inmost treasures of their hearts, in which they will reserve
> for themselves not even a hope, not even the shadow of a joy, but
> will give up all for mankind. With one faith, with one desire, they
> will labour together in the sacred cause — the extinction of disease,
> the extinction of sin, the perfection of genius, the perfection of love,
> the invention of immortality, the exploration of the infinite, and the
> conquest of creation.
> 
> The Martyrdom of Man, by Winwood Reade

MY LIFE BEGAN in a small semi-detached house in Sanderstead, part
of the dormitory town of Croydon. This was in 1903, when there were
still traces of its village past. A drinking-trough for horses, for instance,
an ancient churchyard, and other such intimations of antiquity. But
already the tidal wave of London was sweeping over the place, so that
soon it would just be part of a single huge urban area, with no difference
between one district and another save the postal address and the name
of the railway station. In this urban conglomerate I was born and bred.
My brothers and I — we were five boys — were brought up to look with
distaste on the suburbia which was our native habitat. It was mean and
foolish, like the Pooters in The Diary of a Nobody; and came under the
general anathema of being petit-bourgeois which, in the vague Marxism
which provided our theology, signified contemptible, despicable. We
would say of someone we disliked that he was petit-bourgeots in precisely
the same way that middle- or upper-class boys at that time would say
he was under-bred. This attitude bred in us — or at least in me — a sort
of social schizophrenia; we were snobs in relation to our neighbours,
and anti-snobs in relation to those above and below us in the social
scale. I know that I had a dream fantasy of a ‘real worker’ sitting in
braces in front of a roaring fire and drinking cups of strong tea which
