90 The Green Stick

that she belonged directly and wholly to the great fount of life and
energy, with no involvement in the systems of thought and morality
and aesthetics which men create with their minds to evade living as
angels in their imaginations. She had no mind; only a being. I think of
her as I have often seen her, painting away to catch the last rays of the
sun, immune to heat and cold, to buzzing insects as to curious spec-
tators, utterly intent on what she saw around her, herself a part of the
scene; as it might be, a bit of old creeper, or a weather-stained rock,
or a tree shaken and tossed and still precariously standing on a cliff-face.

“You are a friend of my son, Leonard,’ she said, and I nodded. ‘I hear
you have very Left-wing views.’ I nodded again. ‘I take my political
views,’ she went on, ‘from my sister Beatrice Webb and the New
Statesman.’ I proceeded to try and demolish both, citing the Russian
Revolution, which the Webbs at that time held in great abhorrence.
She replied with ‘Beatrice says . . . Sidney says...’ It was impossible
to argue with her, then, or ever. She had a way of dropping out wildly
controversial statements, often chosen with great cunning to produce
the maximum irritation in the person to whom they were addressed,
and then, when the storm broke, of placidly repeating her original
statement. We moved on to the subject of personal immortality, in
which she had a passionate and abiding interest; desperately wanting
there to be an after-life, but only if it were here, on the earth, with
sunsets and dawns and high waves breaking against wild rocks. Dreading
that there might be no immortality at all, only darkness and obliteration;
or, if there were, that it would be heavenly instead of earthly, with a
judgment at which she would fare ill, We went to and fro, with this
subject, until it was dark. Then she abruptly got up to go, and made off,
carrying her bag, with those loose-fitting boots of hers scraping the
pavement as she went along.

I had no particular idea what I should do after Cambridge, except
that I was committed to teach in one capacity or another. In addition to
my poor pass degree, I had taken a diploma in education; yet another
course of instruction of which I can remember nothing except turning
over the pages of some sort of treatise on child psychology and of
another volume called significantly The Play Way, as well as partici-
pating in various teaching demonstrations. These included a music
lesson, at which, being unable to produce or recognise any musical
sounds, I was at a heavy disadvantage, and giving a demonstration
lesson myself, under the eye of a supervisor, on some distasteful verses
by Walter de la Mare beginning: “Three jolly gentlemen dressed in
