The Right Eye 553

around carrion, to demonstrate their alertness to their constituents
and even shout ribald messages to this or that crony at home.

It seems to me that representative institutions based on universal
suffrage reveal the last disrepresentation of power. They are the
converse face of the total despot — the elected people slobbering and
drivelling to some old potentate, some Sultan on a peacock throne or
Grand Mogul — or mad Stalin in the Kremlin, each meditating yet
another mighty purge.

Yelling and gesticulating whether in unison or in contradiction, no
matter, sometimes coming to blows even, processing through division
lobbies or just raising their arm to press a button, the ayes have it, the
noes have it, ayes and noes ultimately indistinguishable. If we take

power as being to the collectivity what sex is to the individual, then
the parliamentary orgies may be compared to the perverse, requiring
strange titillations to give even the hint of arousal, albeit weird and
often disgusting. All carried out to put some stiffening however briefly
into flagging appetites. The pathology of sex is best studied in such
sick exercises; likewise the pathology of power in bawling legislators,
debating furiously about nothing or else passing laws which never
come into effect and in any case have no relevance to anything that

ever was, is, or can be.

I don’t believe in good or bad governments, but in bearable
or unbearable ones. This is the only valid distinction to be made
between one government and another. And when I say ‘bearable’,
I mean by the people governed. Attlee’s government was to me,
decidly more bearable than, say, Tito’s of Yugoslavia, but in terms of
other categories — just or unjust, egalitarian or elitist, representative or
unrepresentative — I can see nothing to distinguish one from another.
I would much prefer to live in America than in USSR, in Japan

than in Communist China but in other terms, I can find nothing to
concern one government about another.
We had part of a flat at the bottom of Buckingham Street

overlooking the Embankment Gardens and the River. On the South
Bank we could see the Festival of Britain. It was the celebration of a

death-wish, or so it seemed to us.

It was one of those macabre enterprises to which declining regimes
are addicted; rather like the champagne suppers followed by a night
at the Ritz that married couples tired of one another resort to with
a view to stimulating declining appetites. The guiding government
