Back in print for the first time since Muggeridge’s death in 1990,
both published volumes of his acclaimed biography—The Green
Stick and The Infernal Grove, plus the previously unpublished start
to an unfinished third volume entitled The Right Eye—all brought together
in one unabridged volume.


> There is not a flat page in this mingling of anecdote, comment and self-criticism.
> 
> ....An iternational throng of writers, politicians, soldiers, sples, traitors and
> eccentrics jostles in these page from Attlee to Wodehouse via Burgess and Philby,
> Churchill, de Gaulle, Gide, Chanel, Montgomery, Evelyn Waugh
> 
> — THE DAILY TELEGRAPH


> Much of it .... is very funny indeed; his description of being inducted mysteries of invisible writing
> when he joined the M16, for instance, is one of the
> great comic set-pieces that are artfully placed throughout the book. ... Apart from
> these, the wit sparkles on almost every page.
> 
> — THE OBSERVER


> ...this is one of the most delightful and entertaining memoirs of our age.
> 
> — THE WASHINGTON POST


> “A sure hand pushes the pen; a splendid mind guides the hand. There are paragraphs in this book that ... are models of the best of clarity, grace and beauty in
> the English language.
> 
> — THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS


Born in 1903, Malcolm Muggeridge started his career as a university lecturer
in Cairo before taking up journalism. As a journalist he worked around the
world on the Guardian, Calcutta Statesman, the Evening Standard and the
Daily Telegraph. In 1953 became editor of Punch, where he remained for
four years. In later years he became best known as a broadcaster both on
television and radio for the BBC. His other books include Jesus Rediscovered, Christ and the Media, and A Third Testament.

ISBN 1-57383-37b-2

Regent College Publishing

www.regentpublishing.com
