
## Foreword

THE RE-ISSUANCE of Malcolm Muggeridge’s autobiography, Chronicles
of Wasted Time, including, for the first time, the fragment with
which he intended to begin his oft-contemplated third volume, will
be welcomed by readers familiar with the compulsively-readable
Muggeridge and, one hopes, will serve to introduce a new generation
to a journalist and author whose life spanned the 20th century and
who chronicled its turbulent ups and downs in matchless prose.

Volume I, The Green Stick — the title drawn from a saying of Leo
Tolstoy’s that somewhere there was buried a green stick inscribed with
words that would destroy evil in the hearts of men and bring them
happiness - was first published by William Collins in 1972. The Sunday
Times hailed it as ‘. . . one of the greatest autobiographies of our time.’
Volume II, The Infernal Grove, a chastened title taken from William
Blake’s ‘Songs of Experience’, appeared a year later (1973).

These two volumes carry Muggeridge’s life story only to the end
of the second World War. For the next two decades, autobiographical
silence. So much of Muggeridge’s career, including his dominance of
the early years of BBC television, lay ahead; so why no third volume?

In part, it may have been due to mental exhaustion; Muggeridge
was nearly 70 when he completed The Infernal Grove. In part, it was
because many of the people who would populate his third volume
were still alive, sensitive to criticism, and not beyond a threat of libel.
Malcolm told me once that he could never write about his once close
friendship with novelist Anthony Powell as long as Powell was alive;

as it happened Powell was to outlive Muggeridge by a decade. Then,
too, it is clear that Malcolm wanted to switch the tone and substance
of his memoirs; from events to their significance, from the ways of the
world to his vision of God. Indeed, his highly autobiographical 1969
bestseller, Jesus Rediscovered, had already begun the process.
