4 Foreword

courage his reportage constituted.’ Alas, by the time Susan Taylor
wrote that, Muggeridge was dead.

Vindication came again from Alexander Solzhenitsyn; when Joseph
Pearce interviewed Solzhenitsyn for his biography (Solzhenitsyn: a Soul
in Exile, Baker Books, 2001) Solzhenitsyn commended Muggeridge
as“... a man able to travel that difficult path of freeing himself from
socialist lies and attaining spiritual heights.’

It was Malcolm’s Russian experience that first prompted a re-
evaluation of Christianity. As Muggeridge put it four decades later:
‘My disillusionment with the notion ofa predestined progress towards
a kingdom of heaven on earth led me inexorably back to the kingdom
not of this world proclaimed in the Christian revelation.’

Malcolm made a prophetic remark to me in 1978 when I happened
to be staying with him at the time a conclave in Rome chose Karol
Wojtyla to become Pope John Paul II. ‘It is the end of the Soviet
Union,’ Muggeridge said, ‘they will not be able to withstand the
moral authority of a Pope from the Communist bloc.’ Another
prophecy that he did not live to see fully vindicated.

Nothing in Muggeridge’s controversial journalistic career ever
rivaled his “Royal Soap Opera’ article that appeared in the Saturday
Evening Post on October 19, 1957. His theme was that materialist
societies like ours are especially prone to hero-worship; having by
and large ceased to believe in God, they pay increasing obeisance to a
Queen or Royal family, making of a symbol (‘no bad thing in itself’)
a kind of substitute or ersatz religion.

The Queen happened to be touring America when the article
appeared (it had been written nearly two years before) and the
British press smelled blood. Muggeridge’s article was described as
"... treasonous... ruthless... shocking... patronizing... gruesome’
to quote only a few epithets. Muggeridge received death threats
and his home was vandalized. As he walked along the seafront in
Brighton, a passer-by spat in his face. He was banned from the BBC,
and his newspaper column dropped.

We who have lived to watch the authority ofthe Monarchy reduced
to a ribald joke — soap opera indeed — can but marvel at Muggeridge’s
prescience and courage. If even he could not have imagined a
character quite so ludicrous as Princess Di, he could nevertheless say,
paraphrasing Kipling, ‘I saw the sunset ere most men saw the dawn.’

In the 1960s and 70s Muggeridge operated as a sort-of freelance
