The Iron Gates 287

after him), ce jeune homme extraordinaire qui aime tant la paix, as the
French newspapers referred to him. Who could then have foreseen the
stormy course that lay ahead for him? From glory to glory; the Foreign
Office, the War Office, and finally Downing Street, and then that weird
withdrawal to the Jamaican Bondhouse, Goldeneye, and, reappearance
as a ghostly earl or belted ghost. And, finally — was it really he? Looking
out across the Lake from a hotel balcony in the early morning? That
grey straggling moustache, those floating locks and flashing eyes, that
air of woebegone self-satisfaction — was it, could it be... ? Yes, it was.
None other than our Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. Ramsay MacDonald.
‘Good-morning, sir,’ I said as cheerfully as possible. In return he gave
me one of his slow, lugubrious looks, and then delivered himself of a
characteristic line: “The day is for the wurruld, but the morrrning is for
myself!’ I left him to enjoy his own morning in preparation for the
world’s day.

The League of Nations in those days focused the hopes of the en-
lightened everywhere; all eyes were upon it in the confident expectation
that it would succeed in making war as obsolete as duelling, and armed
forces as unnecessary to nations as wearing a sword had become to indi-
vidual citizens. In some mysterious way, just willing this would bring it
to pass; by renouncing armaments, nationalistic policies and other
works of the evil one, good would triumph, and peace reign for ever-
more. Sooner or later, everyone who was anyone came to Geneva to
celebrate this new era of universal peace that was being inaugurated
there. As well as the delegates themselves and their suites, there were in-
numerable campaigners of one sort and another, male and female, clerical
and lay, young and old; all with some notion to publicise, some pet
solution to offer, some organisation to promote. They gathered in droves,
fanning out through the city, and settling in hotels and pensions, from
the Lakeside ones down to tiny obscure back-street establishments.
Ferocious ladies with moustaches, clergymen with black leather patches
on the elbows of their jackets or cassocks and smelling of tobacco smoke,
mad admirals who knew where to find the lost tribes of Israel, and
scarcely saner generals who deduced prophetic warnings from the
measurements of the pyramids; but one and all believers in the
League’s historic role to deliver mankind painlessly and inexpensively
from the curse of war to the great advantage of all concerned.

What a time that was for Geneva! Not since Calvin has the spotlight
of history so shone on it; and, of course, with the spotlight, came the
world’s newspapermen, their favourite haunt being the Café Bavaria,
