
## 9. The Victor’s Camp

> ... Justice, that fugitive from the Victor’s camp.
> — Simone Weil


> When truth conquers with the help of 10,000 yelling men — even
> supposing that that which is victorious is truth; with the forms and
> manner of the victory a far greater untruth is victorious.
> — Kierkegaard

AFTER SOME SICK-LEAVE, I reported back to Section Five, now in-
stalled in Ryder Street in premises that were subsequently to house the
Economist; an appropriate succession. Everything seemed very much the
same as it had been at St Albans, with Philby more than ever the domi-
nant personage. He still, when working at his desk, wore his father’s old
1914-18 war officer's tunic, and still had his same little circle of ardent
admirers, My performance in Lourengo Marques - which looked so
much better in the telegrams than when actually happening — was
considered to have been impressive, and earned me a certain prestige,
but I never felt other than an outsider when I was with Philby and his
friends. They were altogether more serious than I was about our plans
and stratagems, and found my derisory attitude towards SIS, and
refusal to accept the USSR as the one just Power engaged in the war,
particularly distasteful.

Occasionally quite sharp arguments developed. I cannot recall that
Philby ever joined in these, save once-and that might have been
significant. It arose out of someone complaining very bitterly that
invaluable intelligence from Bletchley relating to the enemy order of
battle and operations on the Eastern Front was being withheld from the
Russians for fear that they might compromise the source. I argued that
such caution was legitimate, especially in view of the way the Russians
had passed on to the Germans everything they knew about us and our
