396 The Infernal Grove

what should I say? Or questioned me about the places I had been to
abroad, and how long I had stayed in them? Or asked for details of my
projected departure and subsequent travels. My story, as it seemed to
me, was full of obvious pitfalls, And how should I ever memorise that
number in the left-hand top corner when I find it impossible to remem-
ber the registration number of a car, even when I have been driving about
in it for years? By the time my turn came, I was in a state of nerves which
must have seemed highly suspicious in the light of my threadbare story,
tremulously recounted. To my great relief, no questions were asked, the
man behind the guichet positively winking as he handed me my identity
card and emergency ration book. As for the number I was supposed to
memorise — I forgot all about it, and no one ever asked me for it.

It might well be wondered ~ as, indeed, I wondered at the time my-
self - what was the point of this exercise in mystery when it would have
been as easy to procure an identity card and emergency ration card for
me as it had been to procure a passport. To ask such a question is to fail
to understand the whole character of secret Intelligence, one of whose
basic precepts is that nothing should ever be done simply if there are

devious ways of doing it. With old hands it becomes second nature, for
instance, to communicate in code, and to use an accommodation address,

for perfectly innocuous communications; to prefer a cache in a potting-
shed to a normal letter-box, and a diplomatic bag to a suitcase for carry-
ing blameless personal effects. Kim Philby’s American wife, until she
got used to it, and came to regard it as a harmless eccentricity, was
astonished when he sent her loving messages on tiny fragments of tissue
paper, which, as he explained, could comfortably be swallowed if this
should be required in the interest of security. As it happened, the
address of the Broadway office and the names of most of its leading
occupants had been given out on the German radio quite early on in
the war following an incident when two SIS representatives at The
Hague fell into enemy hands. This made no difference to security
arrangements; the Chief, at the time Sir Stuart Menzies, was still known
as ‘C’ even in the internal telephone directory, and all other blown
symbols and aliases were scrupulously maintained. Again, in coded
messages, countries had always to be referred to by symbols - Germany,
for instance, was ‘“Twelve-land’. The practice was scrupulously ob-
served throughout the war even though, on one festive occasion at an
Istanbul hotel, when the orchestra played the German national anthem,

the staff of the German embassy stood to attention and sang as one man:
‘Zwolfte-land, Zwélfte-land, uber alles!’ Outside ‘C’ ’s office a blue light
