The Iron Gates 345

against Hitler they had been demanding so vociferously must now be
regarded as an imperialist one, and at all costs prevented from happening.
Of the distress in Cross Street, Bouverie Street and Long Acre, that
there should now be so mighty a hole in the common front against
Fascism they had been advocating. Of the sadness in Printing House
Square that, after all, Stalin was not going to come forward as civilisa-
tion’s resolute defender, and take the Houses of Parliament, the Bank of
England, Black Rod, and for that matter The Times itself, all under his
wing. Of the desolation in Great Turnstile; of the Left Book Club
volumes in their yellow dust-jackets being silently removed from
windows in Henrietta Street, and, perhaps, even the Dean of Canter-
bury having a momentary doubt as to whether Stalin really would go
on building the Kingdom of Christ now that he had aligned himself
with Hitler. For a minute, in my delight, I thought that apologists for
the Soviet regime among the Western intelligentsia were confounded for
ever; and then, of course, I realised — not so. In a little while, they would
recover their breath at the Daily Worker; in Cross Street, Bouverie
Street and Long Acre, be tapping away again as confidently as ever; joy
returning to Great Turnstile, the Dean recovering his nerve, and the
Henrietta Street windows filling again. Like alcoholics after taking the
cure — never another drop; well, just a taste perhaps, and then, before

you could say knife, back on the meths. Meanwhile, there was the war.
