The Victor’s Camp 471

if evil is allowed to exist, it tends to be elevated, as having some inherent
creativity, beauty, joyousness, of its own. Yet what I saw in Gide was
the terrible desolation of evil, the total alienation from the principle
of goodness in all creation; he seemed to be imprisoned in darkness,
like someone waking in a strange room, and looking in vain for a
switch or a door or a window.

Inevitably, the subject of the USSR cropped up between us. Gide
said that not being allowed to visit Russia any more was like a physical
deprivation to him, he so longed to be there. I could understand this;
quite irrespective of the Soviet regime, there is something about the
people and the countryside, something in the very air one breathes,
that exerts a tremendous pull. The impression I had was that Gide now
regretted the break with the Soviet authorities that the publication of
his second book about the USSR had caused, and looked back
nostalgically on his first visit, when he was treated as an honoured
guest, like any Bernard Shaw or Henri Barbusse. His disillusionment,
in any case, seems to have resulted rather from the changed attitude to
pederasty in the USSR, making its practice a penal offence, as it had
been before the Revolution, than from any outraged sense of the
injustice, inequality and cruelty Soviet rule involved for its ostensible
beneficiaries. I was tempted to pass on to him something the British
Consul-General in Algiers had told me. He had been instructed to
present to Bogomolov, head of the Russian Mission, a list of Soviet
nationals who had found their way to Algeria, and ask him what he
wanted done about them. Bogomolov took a pencil and ticked the
names of those who were forty and under. When the Consul-General
asked what should be done about the others, he just shrugged expres-
sively. So Alaric, King of the Visigoths, might have shrugged if someone
had asked what should be done about the old and the sick when Rome
was sacked.

The only person I had ever met who knew Gide was Alfred Douglas,
and it was on the tip of my tongue to mention him to see how Gide
would react; but I desisted, vaguely remembering all the rows and
charges and counter-charges that had accompanied the notorious visit
Wilde, Douglas and Gide paid to Algiers in 1895. Hugh Kingsmill and
Hesketh Pearson took me to see Douglas towards the end of his life,
when he was living in a small villa in Hove, and in the habit of taking
his evening stroll along the promenade. Other local residents might
well have been surprised if they had known who was in their midst.
By this time he was a small shrivelled-up man with a large bulbous
