The Victor’s Camp 515

commending thinking with our blood, producing on this theme,
Apocalypse, with its strong affinity with Mein Kampf. Not to mention
Céline, who carried his ravings, not just to the end of the night, but to
the end of the world, and still died in his bed; while Orwell’s brilliant
send-up of a broiler-house state was taken as applying specifically to the
USSR, instead of, as was the case, to contemporary authoritarianism
in all its guises. In the end, Montherlant, like Hemingway, took his own
life; they were both bull-fight fanciers - that sick resort of the weak

and solace of the timid.

At the Boulevard Suchet, I heard much talk, mostly cynical and
facetious, about the different grades and categories of ennuies then being
endured, and gleaned a good deal of information on the subject, of vary-
ing degrees and reliability ; not least about the famous Mme Coco Chanel.
As it happens, I was to be taken to see her by an old friend of hers,
F, who had appeared in Paris, covered in gold braid, as a member of
one of the numerous liaison missions which by now were roosting there.
So I went along with F to Mme Chanel’s lavish haute-couture and per-
fume emporium with a sense of being on duty as well as pleasure bent.
My first impression of her was of someone tiny and frail, who, if one
puffed at her too hard, might easily just disintegrate; her powdery
frame collapsing into a minute heap of dust, as those frail houses had
in the London Blitz. She seemed to have various pieces and shapes of
shining metal about her person; like Earl Attlee in old age when he
went to a ceremonial dinner, or one of the ancient men-at-arms at
Windsor Castle who appear in breast-plate and armour at gatherings
of Knights of the Garter. It seemed extraordinary that she should be
able to support this extra weight. By way of attendant, she had with her,
not, as might have been supposed, some elegant young girl, but a grey-
haired lady who looked as aged as herself, to whom she gave instructions
quite softly but containing a hidden note of authority which sent her
scuttling off to do her mistress’s bidding.

If Mme Chanel felt any uneasiness at my presence, she gave no
indication of it; towards F she adopted an attitude of old familiarity,
as though to say: ‘Don’t imagine, my dear F (she addressed him by his
surname), that your being dressed up in all that gold braid impresses
me at all. I know you!’ Nor had she, as a matter or fact, any cause for
serious anxiety, having successfully withstood the first épuration assault
at the time of the Liberation by one of those majestically simple strokes
which made Napoleon so successful a general; she just put an announce-
ment in the window of her emporium that scent was free for GI’s, who
