The Iron Gates 333

expected to spend our afternoons and evenings roaming the town,
making contacts, picking up useful information, attending social occa-
sions — cocktail parties, dinner parties, receptions, first nights, even hunt
balls. Randolph, of course, was in great demand among hostesses, and
Patrick Balfour had his own special milieu where paragraph-fodder was
plentiful; but I personally never sallied forth or attended anything on
the Diary’s behalf. Appearing in it was considered in those days very
good publicity, and all sorts of people, from debutantes to authors and
Intelligence agents (in the last category, one who used to bring two
mastiffs with him when he visited the office) were after us in the hope of
planting something, or, at any rate, just getting a mention.

The easier course, from my point of view, was to rely on the cuttings
and my own inventiveness. I found that no objections were ever raised
so long as what appeared in the Diary ministered to the subject’s self-
esteem; not even to purported quotations given in direct speech. Dr
Johnson had the same experience when he was producing reports of
parliamentary debates without ever going near the Houses of Parliament.
Indeed, he gave the job up when he discovered that the fictitious speeches
he attributed to Noble Lords and Honourable Members were being taken
as true. Journalism has moved a long way since his time, and I must say
it never occurred to me to feel any qualms when my imaginary conver-
sations passed unchallenged. At times there might be carping over
trivialities; as when, as a matter of routine, I said of a newly ennobled
Scottish peer that his grandfather had been a poor crofter, and he wrote
in to deny that this was so. Honour was satisfied when I made the
necessary correction by stating in a subsequent paragraph that his grand-
father had been a rich crofter. On another occasion I chanced my arm
by remarking of an up-and-coming politician that he was very fond of
music, and never missed a symphony concert if he could help it.
Afterwards, I heard from someone who knew him that he was tone-
deaf, but by that time my paragraph had got into the cuttings, and a
lover of music he will now remain for all time.

Occasionally, a Beaverbrook-sponsored paragraph would come my
way, marked with the word ‘must’. One, I remember, consisted of a
scribbled, garbled quotation about many aspiring but few succeeding,
which was to be applied to animadverting upon how rarely politicians
who move over from Westminster to the City make good there. The
point was clear enough; Beaverbrook had acquired a huge fortune, but
been a relative failure in politics, and so wanted to read in the Londoner’s

Diary -a favourite feature - that making money was a more difficult
