
## 7. Grinning Honour

> Soft! Who are you? Sir Walter Blunt:- there’s honour for you! ...
> I like not such grinning honour as Sir Walter hath: give me life;
> which I can save, so; if not, honour came unlook’d for, and there’s
> an end. 
> — Falstaff

Even wars, then, are waged with peace as their object, even when
they are waged by those who are concerned to exercise their warlike
prowess, either in command or in the actual fighting. Hence it is an
established fact that peace is the desired end of war. For every man is
in quest of peace even in waging war, whereas no one is in quest of
war when making peace. In fact, even when men wish a present state
of peace to be disturbed they do so not because they hate peace, but
because they desire the present peace to be exchanged for one that suits
their wishes. Thus their desire is not that there should not be peace
but that it should be the kind of peace they wish for.
— Augustine’s City of God

AS NEARLY ALWAYS HAPPENS with long-awaited excitements, war,
when at last it came, proved an anticlimax. After all the apocalyptic
warnings delivered on so many solemn occasions from so many solemn
throats, we confidently expected the sky to darken, Big Ben to be silenced,
and destruction to fall about us with sheets of flame and mighty roarings
as of a tempest. It was all to come, but not yet. What happened immedi-
ately was that, on a bright September Sunday morning, an old man’s
quavering, angry voice was heard on the radio, rising to shrill heights as
he told us that we were at war fighting against all the evil things in the
world and for all the good ones. Through the open window we saw our
stand-in parson, the Rev. Browell, making his way along the road with
