
## 8. On Secret Service

> But vain the Sword and yain the Bow,
> They never can work War’s overthrow.
> — Blake


> Only when a man has become so unhappy, or has grasped the misery
> of this existence so profoundly that he can truly say, ‘For me life is
> worthless;’ only then can life have worth in the highest degree.
> — Kierkegaard

MY INSTRUCTIONS were to present myself at an office in Broadway,
opposite St James’s underground station, which I duly did. As a reader

of Ashenden I was naturally excited at the prospect of entering the
portals of the world-famous British Secret Service (or SIS as it was
usually called), though I assumed that at this first preliminary encounter
I should not be admitted to the actual headquarters, but only to some
shadow set-up, or fagade, used to try out aspirants before definitely
taking them on. I may add that everyone I saw and everything that
happened seemed to support such an assumption. It was only later that
I came to realise I had been in contact, not with a hurriedly improvised
dummy, but the real thing. While I was awaiting my own clearance at
the main entrance, I was able to observe the people coming and going.
A good proportion of them were in the services, with the Navy pre-
ponderating. I only saw one, as I thought, false beard —a luxuriant
tangled growth, whose wearer turned out, on closer acquaintance, to be
a former trade-unionist and Marxist, allegedly from the boiler-makers’
union. He was responsible for providing expert guidance in industrial
matters; and his beard, he assured me, was genuine, though he admitted
that he had allowed it to proliferate since joining SIS, as he had also
his use of strong language, and tendency to bang the table to emphasise
a point. The last glimpse I had of him was towards the end of the war,
